What questions can I answer?
So yeah.
>> Regarding the holding
cycle you recommend anyway?
Is there a standard way of doing it?
Like, for example, if you want to
be able to know the internet has
been fulfilled or there is an error.
>> Yep.
>> How do you go around doing this?
>> Is there like a standard
way of doing this?
>> Yeah,
>> Is like everyone is different so.
>> Yeah, that's the tricky part with
especially the lower level redox,
which is like it's whatever
code you write, right?
Redux toolkit is going to automatically
fire that pending version of the event.
Then it's gonna fire you this filter
the error one I think in the absence of
a better pattern.
Taking an officially sanctioned
library like Redux toolkit and
doing what they do is
probably a great idea, right?
But if you were to do it by hand,
you would have to fire each one of those.
So it's basically cool fire
the pending event effectively,
like before we launch the promise.
So you'd do it here,
you'd fire your dispatch upending event.
This is a pseudo-code now you
dispatch a pending event here.
Dispatct the action,
you would then catch the air.
If there was an error,
you dispatch an error event,
otherwise this special filled when you
basically do the same life-cycle yourself.
All the Redux toolkit is doing for
you is taking care of that.
Now, in terms of what do you do?
It all depends if you're
just doing something lightweight
dunk works really well.
If not, it's things like Redux observable,
you can kind of like change the flow of
different actions into dispatch stuff.
But really, if you think about it,
you have following the promise life-cycle
isn't the worst idea in the world, right?
Like you've got a pending promise.
You've got to fulfill a promise and you've
got either an error or rejected promise.
Those are really the three states
that you need to worry about.
And for the most part,
I would just since if you're especially
if you're using promises or whatever.
Having the actions based like that
very core thing we talked about in
the beginning of the workshop,
which is like your action should
be just the facts, right?
And naming the action types based on what
happened inherently makes sense, right?
Hey, if fulfilled, it's pending,
it errored and kind of just going with
the same promise life-cycle,
is probably your best path forward.
>> What about Redux, observable aware,
they will be, injected.
>> Yeah.
>> Slides.
>> Yeah, so with Redux observable, which
is honestly one of my favorite libraries.
So Redux observable installs
itself as middleware, right?
And just as we saw the very beginning
of this workshop, middleware can listen
to any action and they can either consume
that action it can let it pass through.
It can dispatch more actions.
So Redux observable sits like
alongside the rest of this listening
to every action that comes through
then through your RX j s Epics or
icon pipelines,
they're called Epics in Redux observable.
Will listen be like based on this, I wanna
do these, this observable workflow and
then I wanna spit out these other
actions that will then go into Redux.
So it almost sits alongside dispatch
listening to everything and
deciding what it wants
to do based on that.
>> And the other said bigs,
organized like accordion state slices for.
>> So it's completely separate from that.
It's just again, it's only listening
to the actions you can get
the entire store but is completely
removed from either Redux toolkit or
even your read out the shape
of your Redux state.
It is solely listening to all
the actions that flow through.
You do have access to the store,
which is again, like all this did
was use combined reducers, right?
So, it's using this like Redux tokens
using the same Redux stuff on the hood but
it like Redux observable
is completely agnostic.
To any of your slices or anything along
those lines is just listening to actions.
Every action that flows through,
flows through all of your
epics just like reducers.
It flows through all of your epics and the
epics that care will do something with it.
They'll maybe dispatch more actions or
whatever.
They'll throttle the actions,
so on and so forth.
But they're just listening to the flow
of actions through your application and
then using reactive programming through RX
JS to figure out what to do based on that.
>> Do you have any thoughts like what the
community decided to go away from that?
They keep saying build your own
kind of state management solution.
>> Yeah.
>> We kind of follow that, but we came
to the point that we find ourselves
like replicating all the APIs and
new Josie we already have.
And that wasn't like super beneficial, I
wonder if you have more insights out that.
>> I mean, some of this is we're gonna
enter the realm of pure conjecture.
Sometimes the user does always
build your own is a thing
that you very frequently
hear in a new library.
Right, cuz there isn't everything yet,
right?
It's you should build your own.
And then enough people say that and
then, okay,
maybe we need an abstraction around this,
right?
I've been, been around long enough
that very early libraries and
frameworks, yeah, you can just,
we have a plugin API.
Build your own and do it yourself is
very I think you hear very early on.
And then what happens is, and
there's a reason for this, that works.
Which is the answer is like,
we haven't built enough large scale
applications to know what the answer is.
So what happens is people go and
build their own,
we start to realize what
the best practices are, right?
Rather than somebody sitting in
their ivory tower going like, okay,
I have created a new library, and
this is what we should all do.
Nobody really knows yet, what happens
is we all go and we build things.
Some of them are, some of them ended up
working better than the others, right?
And we start to align on
the practices that have worked and
start to avoid the things that
got us into a lot of trouble.
Right and so a lot of times in
a very early stage we don't know.
Right, and so it's try stuff out and
then we start to learn enough things.
Okay, everyone should probably
do the same seven things.
What if we begin to pull them all together
into an abstraction that help people not
have to make these decisions all the time?
I think a lot of libraries walk that
convention over configuration, right?
Convention is there are the rails
way of doing things.
There is the Ember way of doing things,
you very much go with the flow.
Redux toolkit is a little bit closer
to that convention side, which is cool.
This is the Redux toolkit
way of doing things.
There's that extra reducers escape hatch,
which is totally neat.
But early on is more like hey,
here's a very lightweight thing.
You can use it any way you want.
It's a lot of times a lot
easier to get started with and
wrap your head around if that makes sense.
>> And Steve,
could you please give a piece of advice?
For the medium large project,
what is the best
like solution of state
management using raj's
Redux observable is Redux
still a good choice.
Or are there any new libraries?
>> Yeah.
>> If any insights regarding that.
>> So there's always a new libraries,
in JavaScript, right?
The big question is is really interesting
to watch as I've been doing this for
longer I used to be like, what is the new
hot thing right, let me go use that.
And as I get a little bit older,
I get a little bit more boring,
we in the kind of refactoring
re architecture and
of that drag-and-drop email editor that
my team and I started working on in 2018.
Now, we were trying to rescue
just like this, application had
started out as a rails app that then
some people threw some jQuery on.
But then they threw a react
app on top of that, and
it was like their first react application.
And it was all of these things
stacked on top of each other,
to the point where we couldn't
move anything anymore.
And then when the backend was moving
completely to AWS, we had to refactor so
much that it made more sense to
kind of like lay a new foundation.
We did the research we looked
at are we gonna use thunks?
Are we going to use Redux saga?
We're gonna use Redux observable,
we did a bunch of proof of concepts.
We ended up picking Redux observable for
us and it turned into like.
We haven't regretted that decision, right?
When I've had teams move to
one of the other code bases,
they want to bring that with them.
So, new libraries and come out in I'm hard
pressed to the idea that I could make
the idea that we can make a technology
choice and three years later,
not regret it.
Is not common, right, and the idea
that has worked in this fairly large
application is pretty,
pretty powerful, right?
Like is argumentation perfect, no, right?
Do newer engineers copy and
paste some of those epics and
just tweak things in a lot of cases.
Absolutely, but generally speaking,
it has stood the test of time for us and
has not been a major source
of bugs in our application.
So that is my personal opinion that
doesn't, a lot of this stuff becomes
the point of subjectiveness
after a certain point as well.
But, I've been pretty pleased with using
Redux for really complicated state
management as long as Redux observable
to deal with all of the other things.
Now, to be clear, Redux thunk might be
fine if you're just like doing some
basic CRUD operations for us,
we've got like autosave and drag and drop.
We need to do all sorts of
throttling to bouncing for
all sorts of different kinds of things.
And some of our API's involve kind of very
complicated state machine logic that,
that having Redux
observable helps us with.
It could be overkill if you're like
I needed to fetch some news articles
from an API and
put them on this page right?
Maybe you don't need all
that we definitely did.
And even in the sophistication of that
application have not learned to regret it
yet, knock on wood.
>> And the monolith
architecture microphone dance.
>> We do a mono repo.
>> One mono repo with micro flow tensor so
just a monolith right but yeah, I guess.
>> If you say monolith at a tech company,
they don't let you do it.
So you call it a monolith and
then everyone's happier.
>> Because currently at our project we
are writing into micro front ends and
we are searching for the best solution
like to encapsulate state in our macro for
dance, and at the same time.
To share the state between these
microphones at some shareable state, and
we're just wondering,
which is the best choice for
a micro front ends architecture?
>> I don't know.
I tried to like we originally wanted to
use a micro front end architecture, and
for the life of us
couldn't figure out one.
Didn't, when you start
drawing the diagram and
it starts getting you can tell
like this is getting complicated.
So then the decision was stick with
a single repo and a single monolith and
then, we'll deal with this later.
And it's been three years, and
it's not the problem, right?
We solved all the complaints individually,
with the monorail there's
only one staging environment.
So what we did was we built an
infrastructure that every PR gets deployed
to his own S3 bucket.
And so you have per PR staging
of the front end assets right?
So now nobody was blocked by one
staging environment anymore, right.
We can't deploy a once well
actually master would go so
if some something passed all the tests.
We just solved all the problems that
people had with a mono repo rather than
saying that the mono repo,
the monolith was the problem per se.
Because yeah, a lot of our microservices
on the back end makes total sense because
you can have these isolated pieces.
But we have to eventually at the end of
the day expose a consistent UI to our
customers, right?
And it gets really hard to do that when
everything's kind of fragmented, right?
We have other large code bases that are
currently micro front ends that used to be
a monolith.
And guess where they're going now they're
going back into a monolith again, right?
Because it comes incredibly hard,
now you're updating.
Okay, you have all these micro front ends
that are all running a slightly different
version of react right?
Or all and sharing state
between them gets really hard.
So we've opted just not
to do that because I and
I interviewed a lot of front end
architects a lot of companies
as we're doing this, and ever the only,
we struggled with it, right?
Nobody had a really great answer and
sometimes were we tried it and failed and
went back right.
That doesn't mean that it's
an unsolvable problem, but
I haven't seen a particularly compelling
solution to the problem just yet.
>> Yeah, that one remark regarding sharing
dependencies react version,
so currently is,
it in part five others
model federation and
delighted ours to cache.
Share some dependencies
common dependencies and
various assembler logic for
choosing the proper versions of
the packages so try this one.
>> Yeah, it gets it's tricky, right?
It's definitely I see the benefits,
I see why we all want to do it.
I just don't know if we've totally
figured it out yet, right?
Both of them have most things,
both of them have trade-offs.
There's not necessarily a right answer,
and
it becomes about which set of
trade offs you're happier with.
All right for us,
we decided just keep it in one repo mostly
cuz we just got a bad sense about it.
But I know clearly the architecture works
for some people because it exists, right?
And the tooling, we're we're
constantly working on the drone.
I wouldn't be surprised
if in short order or
even today becomes more of a possibility
than it was for us back in 2018.
>> Steve, thank you.
>> My pleasure.
Thank you all so much.
>> Yeah, it was nice to meet you.
>> You too.
Late after watching your courses offline.
So it's my first experience
watching the line.
>> Awesome, it's good to meet y'all.
>> I am enjoying yours sense
of humor to experience, yeah.
>> Awesome, thank you so much.
Thank you all for joining me and
spending eight hours of your
life together as a group